## Example greedy problems

<h3>Example 1: 2126. Destroying Asteroids</h3>
You are given an integer array asteroids and an integer mass representing the mass of a planet. 
The planet will collide with the asteroids one by one - you can choose the order. If the mass of the planet is less 
than the mass of an asteroid, the planet is destroyed. Otherwise, the planet gains the mass of the asteroid. 
Can you destroy all the asteroids?

We need to choose the optimal order in which the planet collides with the asteroids. Let's say that at the start, 
only two asteroids have a mass less than or equal to the planet, x and y, where x < y < planet. 
Which should we choose to collide first? The answer is that it doesn't matter. Because our mass can only increase, 
if at any point we can destroy an asteroid, we will always be able to destroy that asteroid in the future. 
What's the easiest way to figure out what asteroids we can take at any given step?

To maintain the asteroids that we can destroy, we can sort the input and iterate through it. Then, 
we can just greedily choose the asteroid with the smallest mass at each step. If at any step, 
the smallest remaining asteroid has a mass greater than our planet, then destroying all asteroids is impossible 
and no order of asteroids would allow us to continue.

Although there could be many strategies that lead to a correct solution, 
greedily choosing the smallest remaining asteroid at every step is an intuitive and easy to implement strategy.

```python
class Solution:
    def asteroidsDestroyed(self, mass: int, asteroids: List[int]) -> bool:
        asteroids.sort()
        for asteroid in asteroids:
            if asteroid > mass:
                return False
            mass += asteroid
        
        return True
```

As you can see, after realizing that greedily choosing the smallest asteroid is the optimal method, 
implementing the algorithm is very simple. This algorithm has a time complexity of O(n⋅logn) due to the sort, 
where n is the number of asteroids. The amount of space used is dependent on the language you are using. For example, 
Python implements timsort which uses up to O(n) space, but a language that uses quicksort uses O(logn) space.

<h3>Example 2: 2294. Partition Array Such That Maximum Difference Is K</h3>
Given an integer array nums and an integer k, split nums into subsequences, where each subsequences' maximum 
and minimum element is within k of each other. What is the minimum number of subsequences needed?

For example, given nums = [3, 6, 1, 2, 5] and k = 2, the answer is 2. The subsequences are [3, 1, 2] and [6, 5].

We talked about subsequences briefly in the arrays and strings chapter, but as a reminder, 
a subsequence is a group of elements from the array that keep their order. They're like subarrays, 
but the elements don't need to be adjacent.

In this problem, for each subsequence, we only care about the maximum and minimum value. 
The actual order of the elements in the subsequence doesn't matter. Without the order requirement, 
subsequence is the same as subset. We also spoke about subsets briefly, 
but a subset is just any set of elements from the array.

What is the best way to group the elements? We want to minimize the number of groups, 
so we want to maximize the number of elements in the groups. Let's say we start with the smallest number in the input x. 
We want all elements in the range [x, x + k] to be grouped. It doesn't make sense for any 
of these elements to not be in the group - let's say we decided to exclude x + k - 1. Then, 
the next group would have to start at a smaller number. This limits the range of elements that can be grouped, 
which goes against what we want.

Thus, it's best to greedily take all elements within the range [x, x + k] for the smallest number x. After that, 
we can "erase" those numbers from the array, and we have the same problem again with a different x. 
What is the best way to execute this? Sort the array and iterate over it. 
Because we logically reduced subsequences to subsets, sorting doesn't change anything.

Let's say we have nums = [3, 6, 1, 2, 5] and k = 2. The optimal subsequences are [3, 1, 2] and [6, 5]. 
What if we sort the input? Then we would have [1, 2, 3, 5, 6]. We completely messed up the order of the elements 
and the two optimal subsequences don't exist anymore.

Does it matter though? Is there any meaningful difference between [3, 1, 2] and a new subsequence 
that can be formed from the sorted input [1, 2, 3]? No, because in both, 
the only thing we are concerned about is the maximum and minimum element, which is independent of the order. 
Therefore, we can sort the input without worry.

The smallest element 1 must be in a group. We are allowed to put the 2 and 3 in the same group because they're within k. 
Should we? If we do, then we increment our answer by one, and then we have to solve the remaining problem [5, 6].

If we exclude the 3, then we need to increment our answer by one, and then we have to solve the remaining problem [3, 5, 6]. 
If we exclude both 2 and 3, then we need to increment our answer by one, 
and then we have to solve the remaining problem [2, 3, 5, 6].

In all 3 cases, we increment our answer by one. Therefore, we may as well choose the case 
where the remaining problem is the smallest since we want to minimize the answer. 
We can conclude that the optimal strategy is to greedily take as many numbers as we can per group, 
which is easy to do once we sort the input.

Note that while this isn't a formal mathematical proof for the correctness of the strategy, 
it would be a sufficient explanation in an interview.

```python
class Solution:
    def partitionArray(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        ans = 1
        x = nums[0]
        
        for i in range(1, len(nums)):
            if nums[i] - x > k:
                x = nums[i]
                ans += 1
        
        return ans
```

To summarize: set x at the start and take as many elements as you can. Once you go beyond x + k, 
increment the answer and start again with a new x. This runs in O(n⋅logn) where n is the length 
of the input array due to the sort. Again, the only extra space used is during the sort, 
and the complexity depends on the sorting algorithm used by your language of choice.
