<h1>Reliability</h1>

<h2>What is reliability?</h2>
Reliability, R, is the probability that the service will perform its functions for a specified time. 
R measures how the service performs under varying operating conditions.

We often use mean time between failures (MTBF) and mean time to repair (MTTR) as metrics to measure R.

MTBF = (Total Elapsed Time - Sum of Downtime) / Total Number of Failures
MTTR = Total Maintenance Time / Total Number of Repairs

(We strive for a higher MTBF value and a lower MTTR value.)

<h3>Reliability and availability</h3>

Reliability and availability are two important metrics to measure compliance 
of service to agreed-upon service level objectives (SLO)^.
^A service-level objective (SLOs) is a key element of a service-level agreement (SLA) between a service provider 
and a customer. SLOs are agreed upon as a means of measuring the performance of the Service Provider and are outlined 
as a way of avoiding disputes between the two parties based on a misunderstanding.

The measurement of availability is driven by time loss, whereas the frequency and impact of failures drive the measure 
of reliability. Availability and reliability are essential because they enable the stakeholders 
to assess the health of the service.

Reliability (R) and availability (A) are two distinct concepts, but they are related. Mathematically, A is a function of R. 
This means that the value of R can change independently, and the value of A depends on R. 
Therefore, it’s possible to have situations where we have:
* low A, low R
* low A, high R
* high A, low R
* high A, high R (desirable)
