## Prefix sum

Prefix sum is a technique that can be used on arrays (of numbers). The idea is to create an array prefix where prefix[i] 
is the sum of all elements up to the index i (inclusive). For example, given nums = [5, 2, 1, 6, 3, 8], 
we would have prefix = [5, 7, 8, 14, 17, 25].

When a subarray starts at index 0, it is considered a "prefix" of the array. 
A prefix sum represents the sum of all prefixes.

Prefix sums allow us to find the sum of any subarray in O(1). If we want the sum of the subarray from i to j (inclusive), 
then the answer is prefix[j] - prefix[i - 1], or prefix[j] - prefix[i] + nums[i] 
if you don't want to deal with the out of bounds case when i = 0.

This works because prefix[i - 1] is the sum of all elements before index i. When you subtract this from the sum 
of all elements up to index j, you are left with the sum of all elements starting at index i and ending at index j, 
which is exactly what we are looking for.

In the above image, we want to find the sum of the subarray highlighted in blue.

If you take all the elements up until the end of the subarray (the green line) 
and subtract all the elements before it (the red line), you have the subarray.

With a prefix sum, we can find the sum of the green line 25 and red line 11 in constant time and take their difference 
to find the sum of the subarray as 14.

Building a prefix sum is very simple. Here's some pseudocode:
```
Given an array nums,

prefix = [nums[0]]
for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++)
    prefix.append(nums[i] + prefix[prefix.length - 1])
```

Initially, we start with just the first element. Then we iterate with i starting from index 1. At any given point, 
the last element of prefix will represent the sum of all the elements in the input up to but not including index i. 
So we can add that value plus the current value to the end of prefix and continue to the next element.

A prefix sum is a great tool whenever a problem involves sums of a subarray. It only costs O(n) to build 
but allows all future subarray queries to be O(1), so it can usually improve an algorithm's time complexity 
by a factor of O(n), where n is the length of the array. Let's look at some examples.

Building a prefix sum is a form of pre-processing. Pre-processing is a useful strategy in a variety of problems 
where we store pre-computed data in a data structure before running the main logic of our algorithm. 
While it takes some time to pre-process, it's an investment that will save us a huge amount 
of time during the main parts of the algorithm.

Example 1: Given an integer array nums, an array queries where queries[i] = [x, y] and an integer limit, 
return a boolean array that represents the answer to each query. A query is true if the sum of the subarray from x 
to y is less than limit, or false otherwise.

For example, given nums = [1, 6, 3, 2, 7, 2], queries = [[0, 3], [2, 5], [2, 4]], and limit = 13, 
the answer is [true, false, true]. For each query, the subarray sums are [12, 14, 12].

Let's build a prefix sum and then use the method described above to answer each query in O(1).

```python
def answer_queries(nums, queries, limit):
    prefix = [nums[0]]
    for i in range(1, len(nums)):
        prefix.append(nums[i] + prefix[-1])
    
    ans = []
    for x, y in queries:
        curr = prefix[y] - prefix[x] + nums[x]
        ans.append(curr < limit)

    return ans
```

Without the prefix sum, answering each query would be O(n) in the worst case, where n is the length of nums. 
If m = queries.length, that would give a time complexity of O(n∗m). With the prefix sum, it costs O(n) to build, 
but then answering each query is O(1). This gives a much better time complexity of O(n+m). 
We use O(n) space to build the prefix sum.
