## More hashing examples

Hash maps are nearly ubiquitous. We've talked about some of the most common patterns, 
but there is an unlimited number of ways you can incorporate hash maps into an algorithm. 
Because of how important hash maps are, we'll look at a couple more examples of how hash maps can be used in various problems. 
It is crucial that you are comfortable with hash maps if you want to pass interviews.

<h3>Example 1: 49. Group Anagrams</h3>
Given an array of strings strs, group the anagrams together.

For example, given strs = ["eat","tea","tan","ate","nat","bat"], return [["bat"],["nat","tan"],["ate","eat","tea"]].

How can we check if two strings are anagrams of each other? We could use two hash maps, 
count all the characters in each string, and then compare if the hash maps are the same. 
This is very cumbersome to implement and also doesn't help us with grouping strings together 
if a group has more than 2 strings. For each group, we need a way to uniquely identify the group.

The cleanest way to know if two strings are anagrams of each other is by checking if they are equal after both being sorted. 
Also, all strings in a group will be the same when sorted, so we can use the sorted version as a key. 
We can map these keys to the groups themselves in a hash map, and then our answer is just the values of the hash map.

Essentially, every group has its own "identifier" (the sorted string), 
and we can use this identifier to group them in a hash map easily.

A group could have many strings in it. We need a way to easily identify what strings belong to what group.

Two strings are anagrams of each other if and only if they are sorted. This makes sense because when you sort a string, 
the characters are forced to appear in a well defined order. By definition, anagrams have the same letters, 
so when these letters appear in the same order, they must be equal.

If we have a string "bcab", then sort it, we have "abbc". This is its "identifier" 
because every anagram of "bcab" will also result in "abbc" when sorted. 
We can use the identifier of each string as a hash map key to easily group all the anagrams together.

```python
from collections import defaultdict

class Solution:
    def groupAnagrams(self, strs: List[str]) -> List[List[str]]:
        groups = defaultdict(list)
        for s in strs:
            key = "".join(sorted(s))
            groups[key].append(s)
        
        return groups.values()
```

Note for Python: dictionary.values() doesn't actually return a list, but actually a view object. However, 
the LeetCode judge accepts it as a valid format.

Given n as the length of strs and m as the average length of the strings, we iterate over each string and sort it, 
which costs O(n⋅m⋅logm). Then, we need to iterate over the keys. In the worst case scenario, 
when there are no matching anagrams, there will be n groups, which means this will cost O(n), 
giving an overall time complexity of O(n⋅m⋅logm) (the final +n is dominated). 
The space complexity is O(n⋅m) as each string will be placed in an array within the hash map.

Another way to solve this problem is to use a tuple of length 26 representing the count of each character 
as the key instead of the sorted string. This would technically solve the problem in O(n⋅m) 
because the 26 is a constant defined by the problem, 
but for test cases with smaller strings it would be slower due to the constant factor which is hidden by big O.

It also assumes that the strings can only have 26 different characters, 
which is valid here but less general and less resistant to follow-ups.

<h3>Example 2: 2260. Minimum Consecutive Cards to Pick Up</h3>
