## On Arrays

Binary search is a common optimization to a linear scan when searching for an element's index or insertion point 
if it doesn't exist. In these problems, left and right represent the bounds of the subarray we are currently considering. 
mid represents the index of the middle of the current search space. Sometimes, 
you will directly be binary searching for the answer. Other times, 
binary search will just be a tool that speeds up your algorithm. Let's look at some examples.

<h3>704. Binary Search</h3>
You are given an array of integers nums which is sorted in ascending order, and an integer target. 
If target exists in nums, return its index. Otherwise, return -1.

We'll start with a simple example to show the code implementation. 
The brute force solution would be to perform a linear scan - just check every index. This runs in O(n), 
where n is the length of the input array. Because the array is sorted, 
we can use binary search to improve the time complexity to O(log n).

We don't use any extra space except for a few integer variables.

```python
class Solution:
    def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> int:
        left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1
        while left <= right:
            middle = (left + right) // 2
            if nums[middle] == target:
                return middle
            elif nums[middle] < target:
                left = middle + 1
            elif nums[middle] > target:
                right = middle - 1
        return -1
```

<h3>Example 2: 74. Search a 2D Matrix</h3>
Write an efficient algorithm that searches for a value target in an m x n integer matrix matrix. 
Integers in each row are sorted from left to right. The first integer of each row is greater 
than the last integer of the previous row.

Because each row is sorted and fully less than the next row, we can treat the matrix as one array. 
This hypothetical single array has a length of m * n. If we consider the indices between [0, m * n - 1], 
then how do we find the row and column that each index converts to?

Each row has n elements. That means that row 0 is indices [0, n - 1]. Row 1 is indices [n, 2 * n - 1], and so on. 
This is equivalent to the floor division of n, aka row = i // n - the row increments every n indices.

The column can range between [0, n - 1]. Every n indices, the column resets to 0. 
This is perfect for the modulo operator. col = i % n.

Then, we can just binary search on this hypothetical single array.

Let's say that there are n columns. Each row has n elements. The first n indices belong to row 0. 
The next n indices belong to row 1, and so on.

If an element is in row, then there are row * n elements above it in the grid. Given an index i, 
we can find the row it belongs to by dividing by n. For example, in the image, index 9 belongs to row 2. 
There are four elements per row and we have 9 / 4 = 2. This makes sense as there are eight elements above row 2, 
so indices 8, 9, 10, 11 all belong to row 2.

To find the column given an index i, we just take i % n. Index 0 belongs to the 0th column, 
and then every n indices we are back in the 0th column. Index 1 belongs to the 1st column, 
and then every n indices we are back in the 1st column. Because each column is spaced by n indices, 
the modulus operator gives us the column.

Once we can convert an index i to a (row, col), we can treat the matrix as a normal array 
and perform a binary search over it, like we did in the previous example.

```python
class Solution:
    def searchMatrix(self, matrix: List[List[int]], target: int) -> bool:
        m, n = len(matrix), len(matrix[0])
        left, right = 0, m * n - 1
        
        while left <= right:
            mid = (left + right) // 2
            row = mid // n
            col = mid % n
            num = matrix[row][col]
            
            if num == target:
                return True
            
            if num < target:
                left = mid + 1
            else:
                right = mid - 1
        
        return False
```

Because there are O(m⋅n) elements, the initial search space has a size of O(m⋅n), 
which means this algorithm has a time complexity of O(log(m⋅n)). 
We don't use any extra space except for a few integer variables.
