## String problems

String questions involving stacks are popular. Normally, string questions 
that can utilize a stack will involve iterating over the string and putting characters into the stack, 
and comparing the top of the stack with the current character at each iteration. 
Stacks are useful for string matching because it saves a "history" of the previous characters. 
Let's look at some examples.

<h3>Example 1: 20. Valid Parentheses</h3>
Given a string s containing just the characters '(', ')', '{', '}', '[' and ']', determine if the input string is valid. 
The string is valid if all open brackets are closed by the same type of closing bracket in the correct order, 
and each closing bracket closes exactly one open bracket.

For example, s = "({})" and s = "(){}[]" are valid, but s = "(]" and s = "({)}" are not valid.

The "correct" order is determined by whatever the previous opening bracket was. Whenever there is a closing bracket, 
it should correspond to the most recent opening bracket. For example, if the string starts "({[", 
and the next 3 characters are closing brackets, then they should be in the order of how recently their opening bracket appeared: "]})" 
(otherwise we would end up with something like "[)" occurring). The order is last in, 
first out (LIFO) - the last opening bracket we saw is the first one we should close, 
which is perfect functionality for a stack to provide.

As we iterate over the string, if we see an opening bracket, we should put it on the stack. If we see a closing bracket, 
we can check the most recent unclosed opening bracket by popping it from the top of the stack. If it matches, 
then continue, if it doesn't, or there is no opening bracket on the stack at all (this would occur in a case like "{}]"), 
then we know the string is invalid. In the end, there should be no unmatched open brackets (like in the case of "(){"), 
so the stack should be empty for the string to be valid.

How can we associate the opening and closing brackets together? We can use a hash map to map each opening bracket 
to its closing bracket. Then, when we see a closing bracket, we can use the top of the stack as a key 
and check if the value is equal to the current character.

We iterate over the string and try to process each bracket. At any given time, a stack holds all opening brackets 
we have seen so far that has not yet been closed. Every time we see an opening bracket, we push it onto the stack.

When we see a closing bracket, the most recent unmatched opening bracket must match. Otherwise, 
you would have a case of (} etc. somewhere. The top of the stack is the most recent unmatched opening bracket. 
If we have a match, we can just pop from the stack and move on. If we have a mismatch, the string is invalid. 
If the stack is empty, it means there is no available opening bracket - the string is also invalid in this case.

By using a stack, we can easily keep a history of unmatched opening brackets. If the stack is empty at the end, 
it means we matched all opening brackets.

```python
class Solution:
    def isValid(self, s: str) -> bool:
        stack = []
        matching = {"(": ")", "[": "]", "{": "}"}
        
        for c in s:
            if c in matching: # if c is an opening bracket
                stack.append(c)
            else:
                if not stack:
                    return False
                
                previous_opening = stack.pop()
                if matching[previous_opening] != c:
                    return False
 
        return not stack
```

Because the stack's push and pop operations are O(1), this gives us a time complexity of O(n), 
where n is the size of the input array. This is because each element can only be pushed or popped once. 
The space complexity is also O(n) because the stack's size can grow linearly with the input size.

The key to recognizing the stack solution for this problem is seeing that the problem follows a LIFO nature, 
where the last (most recent) opening bracket is the first to be closed.
